Ac 1:1The former account I have made, O Theophilus, concerning all the things that Jesus began both to do and to teach,

Ac 1:2Until the day on which He was taken up, after He had given commandment through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom He chose;

Ac 1:3To whom also He presented Himself alive after His suffering by many irrefutable proofs, appearing to them through a period of forty days and speaking the things concerning the kingdom of God.

Ac 1:4And as He met together with them, He charged them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, He said, You heard from Me;

Ac 1:5For John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now.

Ac 1:6So the ones who came together asked Him, saying, Lord, are You at this time restoring the kingdom to Israel?

Ac 1:7But He said to them, It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set by His own authority.

Ac 1:8But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you shall be My witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

Ac 1:9And when He had said these things, while they were looking on, He was lifted up, and a cloud took Him away from their sight.

Ac 1:10And while they were looking intently into heaven as He went, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them,

Ac 1:11Who also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you beheld Him going into heaven.

Ac 1:12Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day’s journey away.

Ac 1:13And when they entered, they went up to the upper room where they were residing, Peter and John and James and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot and Judas the brother of James.

Ac 1:14These all continued steadfastly with one accord in prayer, together with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers.

Ac 1:15And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers and said (there was a group of persons gathered together, about a hundred and twenty),

Ac 1:16Men, brothers, the Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before through the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who seized Jesus;

Ac 1:17For he was numbered among us and was allotted his portion of this ministry.

Ac 1:18(Now this man acquired a piece of land with the wages of unrighteousness; and falling headlong, he burst in the middle, and all his inward parts gushed out.

Ac 1:19And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem, so that that piece of land was called in their own dialect, Akeldamach, that is, Field of Blood.)

Ac 1:20For it is written in the book of Psalms, “Let his habitation become desolate, and let no one dwell in it”; and, “His overseership let another take.”

Ac 1:21It is necessary therefore that of the men who accompanied us all the time in which the Lord Jesus went in and went out among us,

Ac 1:22Beginning from the baptism of John until the day on which He was taken up from us, one of these should become a witness of His resurrection with us.

Ac 1:23And they proposed two, Joseph, called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.

Ac 1:24And they prayed and said, You Lord, Knower of the hearts of all, show us clearly the one whom You have chosen of these two

Ac 1:25To take the place of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.

Ac 1:26And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias; and he was counted with the eleven apostles.

Ac 2:1And as the day of Pentecost was being fulfilled, they were all together in the same place.

Ac 2:2And suddenly there was a sound out of heaven, as of a rushing violent wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.

Ac 2:3And there appeared to them tongues as of fire, which were distributed; and it sat on each one of them;

Ac 2:4And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in different tongues, even as the Spirit gave to them to speak forth.

Ac 2:5Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven.

Ac 2:6And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and was confounded because each one heard them speaking in his own dialect.

Ac 2:7And they were amazed and marveled, saying, Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?

Ac 2:8And how is it that we each hear them in our own dialect in which we were born?

Ac 2:9Parthians and Medes and Elamites and those dwelling in Mesopotamia, both in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia,

Ac 2:10Both in Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and the parts of Libya around Cyrene, and the sojourning of Rome, both Jews and proselytes,

Ac 2:11Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our tongues the magnificent works of God?

Ac 2:12And they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, What does this mean?

Ac 2:13But others jeered and said, They are full of new wine!

Ac 2:14But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke forth to them: Men of Judea, and all who are dwelling in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.

Ac 2:15For these men are not drunk, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day;

Ac 2:16But this is what is spoken through the prophet Joel:

Ac 2:17“And it shall be in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of My Spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream things in dreams;

Ac 2:18And indeed upon My slaves, both men and women, I will pour out of My Spirit in those days, and they shall prophesy.

Ac 2:19And I will show wonders in heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood and fire and vapor of smoke.

Ac 2:20The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord comes.

Ac 2:21And it shall be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.”

Ac 2:22Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man shown by God to you to be approved by works of power and wonders and signs, which God did through Him in your midst, even as you yourselves know —

Ac 2:23This man, delivered up by the determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you, through the hand of lawless men, nailed to a cross and killed;

Ac 2:24Whom God has raised up, having loosed the pangs of death, since it was not possible for Him to be held by it.

Ac 2:25For David says regarding Him, “I saw the Lord continually before me, because He is on my right hand, that I may not be shaken.

Ac 2:26Therefore my heart was made glad and my tongue exulted; moreover, also my flesh will rest in hope,

Ac 2:27Because You will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor will You permit Your Holy One to see corruption.

Ac 2:28You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of gladness with Your presence.”

Ac 2:29Men, brothers, I can say to you plainly concerning the patriarch David that he both deceased and was buried, and his tomb is among us until this day.

Ac 2:30Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him to seat One from the fruit of his loins upon his throne,

Ac 2:31He, seeing this beforehand, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was He abandoned to Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption.

Ac 2:32This Jesus God has raised up, of which we all are witnesses.

Ac 2:33Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received the promise of the Holy Spirit from the Father, He has poured out this which you both see and hear.

Ac 2:34For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, “The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at My right hand

Ac 2:35Until I set Your enemies as a footstool for Your feet.”

Ac 2:36Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made Him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you have crucified.

Ac 2:37And when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and they said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, What should we do, brothers?

Ac 2:38And Peter said to them, Repent and each one of you be baptized upon the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.

Ac 2:39For to you is the promise and to your children, and to all who are far off, as many as the Lord our God calls to Himself.

Ac 2:40And with many other words he solemnly testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this crooked generation.

Ac 2:41Those then who received his word were baptized, and there were added on that day about three thousand souls.

Ac 2:42And they continued steadfastly in the teaching and the fellowship of the apostles, in the breaking of bread and the prayers.

Ac 2:43And fear was upon every soul; and many wonders and signs took place through the apostles.

Ac 2:44And all those who believed were together and had all things common;

Ac 2:45And they sold their properties and possessions and divided them to all, as anyone had need.

Ac 2:46And day by day, continuing steadfastly with one accord in the temple and breaking bread from house to house, they partook of their food with exultation and simplicity of heart,

Ac 2:47Praising God and having grace with all the people. And the Lord added together day by day those who were being saved.

Ac 3:1Now Peter and John were going up into the temple at the ninth-hour prayer;

Ac 3:2And a certain man who had been lame from his mother’s womb was being carried there, whom they had laid day by day at the door of the temple which is called Beautiful to ask alms from those entering into the temple.

Ac 3:3And he, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, began to ask to receive alms.

Ac 3:4And Peter, gazing at him with John, said, Look at us!

Ac 3:5And he turned his attention to them, expecting to receive something from them.

Ac 3:6But Peter said, Silver and gold I do not possess, but what I have, this I give to you: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene rise up and walk.

Ac 3:7And he seized him by the right hand and raised him up; and instantly his feet and ankles were made strong.

Ac 3:8And leaping up and about, he stood and began to walk, and he entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.

Ac 3:9And all the people saw him walking and praising God,

Ac 3:10And they recognized him, that he was the one who had been sitting for alms at the temple’s Beautiful Gate; and they were filled with amazement and astonishment at what had happened to him.

Ac 3:11And while he was holding on to Peter and John, all the people ran together toward them at the portico called Solomon’s, greatly amazed.

Ac 3:12And when Peter saw this, he replied to the people, Men of Israel, why are you marveling at this? Or why are you gazing at us, as though by our own power or godliness we have made him walk?

Ac 3:13The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had decided to release Him.

Ac 3:14But you denied the holy and righteous One and asked that a man who was a murderer be granted to you;

Ac 3:15And the Author of life you killed, whom God has raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.

Ac 3:16And upon faith in His name, His name has made this man strong, whom you behold and know; and the faith which is through Him has given him this wholeness of health before you all.

Ac 3:17And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as also your rulers did;

Ac 3:18But the things which God announced beforehand through the mouth of all the prophets, that His Christ would suffer, He has thus fulfilled.

Ac 3:19Repent therefore and turn, that your sins may be wiped away,

Ac 3:20So that seasons of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord and that He may send the Christ, who has been previously appointed for you, Jesus,

Ac 3:21Whom heaven must indeed receive until the times of the restoration of all things, of which God spoke through the mouth of His holy prophets from of old.

Ac 3:22Moses said, “A Prophet will the Lord your God raise up unto you from your brothers, like me; Him shall you hear in whatever things He speaks to you.

Ac 3:23And it shall be that every soul who does not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.”

Ac 3:24And also all the prophets, from Samuel and those in succession after him, as many as spoke, also announced these days.

Ac 3:25You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God covenanted with your fathers, saying to Abraham, “And in your seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.”

Ac 3:26To you first, God, having raised up His Servant, has sent Him to bless you in turning each of you away from your wicked deeds.

Ac 4:1And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them,

Ac 4:2Being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and announcing in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.

Ac 4:3And they laid their hands on them and placed them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.

Ac 4:4But many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of men came to about five thousand.

Ac 4:5And on the next day their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem,

Ac 4:6As well as Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John and Alexander and as many as were of high-priestly descent.

Ac 4:7And they stood them in the midst and inquired, By what power or in what name did you do this?

Ac 4:8Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders,

Ac 4:9If we today are being examined regarding a good deed done to a sick man, by what means this man has been healed,

Ac 4:10Let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that in the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified and whom God has raised from the dead, in this name this man stands before you in good health.

Ac 4:11This is the stone which was considered as nothing by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.

Ac 4:12And there is salvation in no other, for neither is there another name under heaven given among men in which we must be saved.

Ac 4:13And as they beheld the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated men and laymen, they marveled and they recognized them, that they had been with Jesus.

Ac 4:14And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.

Ac 4:15But they ordered them to go away outside the Sanhedrin and conferred with one another,

Ac 4:16Saying, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable sign has occurred through them is manifest to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.

Ac 4:17But in order that this would not be spread further among the people, let us threaten them that they no longer speak based upon this name to anyone.

Ac 4:18And when they called them, they charged them not to utter anything at all nor teach based upon the name of Jesus.

Ac 4:19But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you judge;

Ac 4:20For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.

Ac 4:21And when they had further threatened them, they released them, finding no way that they could punish them on account of the people, because they all were glorifying God for what had happened;

Ac 4:22For the man on whom this sign of healing had occurred was more than forty years old.

Ac 4:23And when they had been released, they went to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.

Ac 4:24And when they heard this, they lifted up their voice with one accord to God and said, Sovereign Master, You are the One who has made heaven and earth and the sea and all things in them,

Ac 4:25Who, through the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David Your servant, has said, “Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples devise vain things?

Ac 4:26The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against His Christ.”

Ac 4:27For truly in this city there were gathered together against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel,

Ac 4:28To do what Your hand and Your counsel predestined to take place.

Ac 4:29And now, Lord, look upon their threatenings and grant Your slaves to speak Your word with all boldness,

Ac 4:30While stretching out Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may take place through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus.

Ac 4:31And when they had so besought, the place in which they were gathered was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with boldness.

Ac 4:32And the heart and soul of the multitude of those who had believed was one; and not even one said that any of his possessions was his own, but all things were common to them.

Ac 4:33And with great power the apostles gave testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.

Ac 4:34For neither was anyone among them in need; for as many as were owners of lands or of houses sold them and brought the proceeds of the things which were sold

Ac 4:35And placed them at the feet of the apostles; and it was distributed to each, as anyone had need.

Ac 4:36And Joseph, who was surnamed Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated, Son of encouragement), a Levite, a Cyprian by birth,

Ac 4:37Who possessed a field, sold it and brought the sum of money and placed it at the feet of the apostles.

Ac 5:1But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property

Ac 5:2And put aside for himself some of the proceeds, his wife also being aware of it. And he brought some part of it and laid it at the feet of the apostles.

Ac 5:3But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to deceive the Holy Spirit and to put aside for yourself some of the proceeds of the land?

Ac 5:4While it remained, was it not your own? And when it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why is it that you have contrived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.

Ac 5:5And when Ananias heard these words, he fell down and expired; and great fear came upon all those who heard this.

Ac 5:6And the young men arose and wrapped him up; and carrying him out, they buried him.

Ac 5:7And it happened that after an interval of about three hours, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.

Ac 5:8And Peter answered her, Tell me whether you have sold the land for this much? And she said, Yes, for this much.

Ac 5:9And Peter said to her, Why is it that it was agreed between you two to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.

Ac 5:10And she fell down instantly at his feet and expired. And the young men came in and found her dead; and carrying her out, they buried her with her husband.

Ac 5:11And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all those who heard these things.

Ac 5:12And through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders took place among the people; and they were all with one accord in the portico of Solomon.

Ac 5:13And none of the rest dared to join themselves to them, but the people magnified them.

Ac 5:14And believers were all the more being added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,

Ac 5:15So that they even carried the sick out into the streets and placed them on cots and mats, in order that when Peter came, at least his shadow might overshadow some of them.

Ac 5:16And the multitude from the cities surrounding Jerusalem also came together, carrying the sick and those troubled by unclean spirits, for such ones were all being healed.

Ac 5:17And the high priest and all those with him, the local sect of the Sadducees, rose up and were filled with jealousy;

Ac 5:18And they laid their hands on the apostles and put them in public custody.

Ac 5:19But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison, and leading them out, said,

Ac 5:20Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life.

Ac 5:21And when they heard this, they entered about daybreak into the temple and began to teach. And the high priest and those with him came up and called together the Sanhedrin, even all the council of elders of the sons of Israel, and sent men to the prison for them to be brought.

Ac 5:22But when the officers arrived, they did not find them in the prison; and they returned and reported,

Ac 5:23Saying, The prison we found locked with all security, and the guards standing at the doors; but when we opened the doors, we found no one inside.

Ac 5:24Now when they heard these words, both the captain of the temple and the chief priests were utterly perplexed concerning them as to what this would come to.

Ac 5:25And someone came up and reported to them, Behold, the men whom you put in the prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.

Ac 5:26Then the captain with the officers went away and brought them without violence, for they feared the people, lest they would be stoned.

Ac 5:27And having brought them, they stood them in the Sanhedrin. And the high priest questioned them,

Ac 5:28Saying, We strictly charged you not to teach based upon this name; and behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.

Ac 5:29But Peter and the apostles answered and said, It is necessary to obey God rather than men.

Ac 5:30The God of our fathers has raised Jesus, whom you slew by hanging Him on a tree.

Ac 5:31This One God has exalted to His right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.

Ac 5:32And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him.

Ac 5:33But when they heard this, they were exasperated and intended to do away with them.

Ac 5:34But a certain Pharisee in the Sanhedrin named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law honored by all the people, stood up and commanded that they put the men outside for a little while.

Ac 5:35And he said to them, Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves with regard to these men, in what you are about to do.

Ac 5:36For before these days Theudas rose up, saying that he was somebody, with whom a number of men, about four hundred, took sides. And he was done away with, and all who were persuaded by him were dispersed and came to nothing.

Ac 5:37After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away a group of people after him. And that man perished, and all who were persuaded by him were scattered.

Ac 5:38And now I say to you, withdraw from these men and leave them alone; for should this counsel or this work be of men, it will be overthrown;

Ac 5:39But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them, lest you be found to be even fighters against God.

Ac 5:40And they were persuaded by him. And having called the apostles to them, they beat them and charged them not to speak based upon the name of Jesus; and they released them.

Ac 5:41So they went from the presence of the Sanhedrin, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to be dishonored on behalf of the Name.

Ac 5:42And every day, in the temple and from house to house, they did not cease teaching and announcing the gospel of Jesus as the Christ.